# CreativeProject1
For this project my aim was to re tell the movie ‘Shutter Island’ directed by Martin Scorsese, in the form of various Instagram posts from characters in the movie. I thought to use Instagram as it gives the creator the ability to give the viewers a visual of the scene and be able to view the scene and what’s happening in the scene more clearly. Originally, I had created actual Instagram accounts for these characters but eventually that became too complicated therefore I switched to a software format. Using this was much easier and straightforward than creating multiple Instagram accounts. The software allowed me to create comments and likes on the pictures and display them in a way that you would actually see on your Instagram feed. 
As this film is quite complicated, it was difficult to portray the story over a few posts without making the project too bulky. This resulted in having to re do and organize the posts in a way that they made sense to the reader and the story flowed with the previous post without creating any holes in the plot. The most difficult part I found was towards the end of the movie when it is not really clear whether Teddy actually accepts his past and his life as Andrew Laedis or if he still believes he is Teddy Daniels. I was torn on whether to create an account for Laedis or not, but decided against it as he never actually refers to himself as such and I felt as though it is up to the viewer to interpret the ending however they see fit. 
As I found it hard to condense the whole film into just 9 posts, due to only being able to use posts rather than some of the other features of Instagram, it does leave room for viewers to interpret the film however they like, especially if they have not seen the film before. It gives viewers a basic outline of the plot but ideally, they would be familiar with the film in order to understand each post and the background behind it. 
One drawback from using a software to create these posts rather than actual accounts, is that I did not have full ability to use many of the Instagram affordances such and stories, tagging people in pictures and Instagram DMs. These affordances are well associated with Instagram and would have added additional content and background to this project if I had the ability to create them. By using Instagram stories, it would have given me the ability to post ‘real time’ events that happen in the movie. This would have also displayed the affordances of Instagram better and would have given me more features to work with.
Recent research has focused on Instagram's distinctive features in the context of why people choose to use it instead of Twitter or Facebook. Users are aware of the distinctive technological aspects of Instagram, which focus on photos, photographs, and videos that let users convey stories. Unlike other digital content, Instagram Stories also allow accounts to be found by users who do not follow the account. (Muñoz, 2022) This can be beneficial to users that wish to grow their account to a different range of viewers. Due to my inability to use this feature, it was not clear to me if it would something that this project would benefit from. However, I doubt that it would as these account are fictional and many people want to keep up with influencers rather than characters from a movie. 
By creating profiles for fictional characters, it formed a new sense of identity when using social media. As these profiles were essentially mine but in no way related to my identity, it was interesting to see how I could manipulate and change the posts to however I see fit. It allowed me to view the posts from a different perspective, as though I was one of the characters. This introduced me to a whole side of Instagram in which people create genuine profiles for fictional characters to interact and engage with fans. These users are creating a new form of identity in terms of social media and allows them to use these profiles to break away from comparing themselves against other users that they may experience on more personal accounts. Particularly by evaluating their abilities and opinions against comparable others'. ‘The affordances of social media encourage mutual self-presentation, which feeds rising social comparison, in which people compare themselves with those who appear to have it better than they do.’ (Chia-chen Yang, 2018) 

Bibliography
Chia-chen Yang, S. M. H. M. D. C. J. J. W., 2018. Social media social comparison and identity distress at the college transition: A dual-path model. Journal of Adolesence , 69(1), pp. 92-102.
Muñoz, T. L. T. &. C. L., 2022. A Long Story Short: An Analysis of Instagram Stories during the 2020 Campaigns. Journal of Political Marketing , 21(3-4), pp. 221-234.
